feat(Cockpit): [MTM-62313][MTM-62316] Cross-Application Dashboard Copy/Paste Functionality (#3274)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/cockpit/working-with-dashboards.md

An alternative way to copy a dashboard is to use the
"dashboard per type" approach.  With the "dashboard per type" approach you share the dashboard from one object with **all** objects of the same type, see [To share a dashboard](#dashboard-template).

> ### To export a dashboard to JSON file and import it {#to-export-a-dashboard-to-json-file-and-import-it}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### To export a dashboard to a JSON file and import it {#to-export-a-dashboard-to-json-file-and-import-it}
```

For more advanced users there is a feature that allows more complex operations on dashboards.

> To access it, click **Manage beta features** in the right drawer and toggle the feature on. Then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.

Reviewer 2: `**Manage beta features**` is subject to change. cc: @eniosultan

Author: @pawel-rynarzewski-c8y  what do you mean?

> To access it, click **Manage beta features** in the right drawer and toggle the feature on. Then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access it, click **Manage preview features** in the right drawer and toggle the feature on. Then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.
```

> To access it, you need to install **Dashboard details advanced tab** plugin to your Cockpit first (it is plugin with scope `self-optional`, so it has to be installed manually), then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access it, you must first install the "Dashboard details advanced tab" plugin to your Cockpit. This is a plugin with the scope `self-optional`, so it has to be installed manually. Then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.
```

> To access it, you must first install the "Dashboard details advanced tab" plugin to your Cockpit. This is a plugin with the scope `self-optional`, so it has to be installed manually. Then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.

Reviewer: "Dashboard details advanced tab" plugin
What is the exact spelling of this plugin? Please check and adapt if needed.

Author: this spelling is correct

> To access it, you must first install the "Dashboard details advanced tab" plugin to your Cockpit. This is a plugin with the scope `self-optional`, so it has to be installed manually. Then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access it, you must first install the "Dashboard details advanced tab" plugin to your Cockpit application. This is a plugin with the scope `self-optional`, so it has to be installed manually. Then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.
```

> To access it, you must first install the "Dashboard details advanced tab" plugin to your Cockpit application. This is a plugin with the scope `self-optional`, so it has to be installed manually. Then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.

Author: currently this paragraph is true, but in the meanwhile we came up with improvement PR https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/cumulocity-ui/pull/9028 that adds this feature to beta features list (so  **Import/export** tab can be enabled from Beate features view, no need to install it manually)

 waiting until https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/cumulocity-ui/pull/9028 is merged before merging this PR
```suggestion
To access it, you must first enable it in **Beta features** in right drawer and then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.
```

Author: leaving this conversation unresolved until feature is not merged into cumulocity-ui develop (not to forget about it and not merging current PR accidentaly)

> To access it, you must first install the "Dashboard details advanced tab" plugin to your Cockpit application. This is a plugin with the scope `self-optional`, so it has to be installed manually. Then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access it, click **Manage beta features** in the right drawer and toggle the feature on. Then navigate to the dashboard settings and open the **Import/export** tab.
```

> The advanced feature allows to edit dashboards as JSON with the incorporated code editor. Keep in mind that this requires knowledge of `ContextDashboard` and widgets configuration interfaces. It also allows to export a dashboard to a JSON file (with some additional data that supports particular widgets in the importing process, for example, that helps to suggest a suitable widget device or takes care of images uploaded for the widget) and then to import the dashboard from the JSON file. This is a much more flexible approach than the one described in [To copy a dashboard from one object to another](#to-copy-a-dashboard-from-one-object-to-another) as it allows to share dashboards not only between the same type of assets in scope of the same tenant, but also to share dashboards between different asset types and different tenants. However, if you share dashboards between different types like groups and devices, for example, a review might be required after the import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The advanced feature allows to edit dashboards as JSON with the incorporated code editor. Be aware that this requires knowledge of `ContextDashboard` and widgets configuration interfaces. It also allows to export a dashboard to a JSON file (with some additional data that supports particular widgets in the importing process, for example, that helps to suggest a suitable widget device or takes care of images uploaded for the widget) and then to import the dashboard from the JSON file. This is a much more flexible approach than the one described in [To copy a dashboard from one object to another](#to-copy-a-dashboard-from-one-object-to-another) as it allows to share dashboards not only between the same type of assets in scope of the same tenant, but also to share dashboards between different asset types and different tenants. However, if you share dashboards between different types like groups and devices, for example, a review might be required after the import.
```

> The advanced feature allows to edit dashboards as JSON with the incorporated code editor. Keep in mind that this requires knowledge of `ContextDashboard` and widgets configuration interfaces. It also allows to export a dashboard to a JSON file (with some additional data that helps particular widgets in importing process, e.g. helps to suggest suitable widget device or takes care of image uploaded for widget) and then to import the dashboard from the JSON file. This is a much more flexible approach than the one described in [To copy a dashboard from one object to another](#to-copy-a-dashboard-from-one-object-to-another) as it allows to share dashboards not only between the same type of assets in scope of the same tenant, but also to share dashboards between different asset types and different tenants. However, if you share dashboards between different types like groups and devices, for example, a review might be required after the import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The advanced feature allows to edit dashboards as JSON with the incorporated code editor. Keep in mind that this requires knowledge of `ContextDashboard` and widgets configuration interfaces. It also allows to export a dashboard to a JSON file (with some additional data that supports particular widgets in the importing process, for example, that helps to suggest a suitable widget device or takes care of images uploaded for the widget) and then to import the dashboard from the JSON file. This is a much more flexible approach than the one described in [To copy a dashboard from one object to another](#to-copy-a-dashboard-from-one-object-to-another) as it allows to share dashboards not only between the same type of assets in scope of the same tenant, but also to share dashboards between different asset types and different tenants. However, if you share dashboards between different types like groups and devices, for example, a review might be required after the import.
```

> It is powerful tool that allows to edit dashboard as JSON with incorporated code editor- keep in mind that it requires knowledge of `ContextDashboard` and widgets configs interaces. It also allows to export dashboard to JSON file (with some additional data that helps particular widgets in importing process, e.g. helps to suggest suitable widget device or takes care of image uploaded for widget) and then to import dashboard from JSON file. This is much more flexible approach than one described in [To copy a dashboard from one object to another](#to-copy-a-dashboard-from-one-object-to-another) as it allows to share dashboards not only between same type of assets in scope of the same tenant, but also to share dashboards between different asset types and different tenants. On the other hand it may not provide so much consistency due to lack of limitation like sharing dashboards between group and device and dashboard might need to be reviewed after import.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The advanced feature allows to edit dashboards as JSON with the incorporated code editor. Keep in mind that this requires knowledge of `ContextDashboard` and widgets configuration interfaces. It also allows to export a dashboard to a JSON file (with some additional data that helps particular widgets in importing process, e.g. helps to suggest suitable widget device or takes care of image uploaded for widget) and then to import the dashboard from the JSON file. This is a much more flexible approach than the one described in [To copy a dashboard from one object to another](#to-copy-a-dashboard-from-one-object-to-another) as it allows to share dashboards not only between the same type of assets in scope of the same tenant, but also to share dashboards between different asset types and different tenants. However, if you share dashboards between different types like groups and devices, for example, a review might be required after the import.
```
